README.md, before:

# Express Blog Template

A blog template. I use it like a diary. Everything needed to have a text blog is here. 

It is only for personal use. There is only an admin login. If you want to have users reading it, but not posting, further customizing is needed. 


## Deployment
### Environment Variables

To run this project, you will need to add the following environment variables to your .env file

```
BLOGUSER=username
PASSWORD=password
```

### Setup Server
Setup the needed node_modules and then run server like this.
```
yarn install 
yarn dev
```
Open `localhost:3000` and login with the username and password you choose in your .env file.



## Production
I use [pm2](https://pm2.keymetrics.io/) to run the server permanently. You can use a free Ec2 instance from AWS to host the blog online. Make sure you open port 3000 on the instance.

## Tech Stack

- **Client:** [Simple.CSS](https://simplecss.org/), [Quill](https://simplecss.org/), [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
- **Server:** [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/), [Express](https://expressjs.com/), [Sqlite](https://www.sqlite.org/index.html)

## Authors

- [@Henrik Zenkert](https://www.github.com/YesSeri)

Commit message:

made posting sections password protected, but blog open.

README.md, after:

# Express Blog Template

A blog template. I use it like a diary. Everything needed to have a text blog is here. 

When you go to posts you will have to login with an admin account, to post. Set the username and password in your .env file. 

## Deployment
### Environment Variables

To run this project, you will need to add the following environment variables to your .env file

```
BLOGUSER=username
PASSWORD=password
```

### Setup Server
Setup the needed node_modules and then run server like this.
```
yarn install 
yarn dev
```
Open `localhost:3000` and login with the username and password you choose in your .env file.



## Production
I use [pm2](https://pm2.keymetrics.io/) to run the server permanently. You can use a free Ec2 instance from AWS to host the blog online. 

I used this [guide](https://ourcodeworld.com/articles/read/977/how-to-deploy-a-node-js-application-on-aws-ec2-server) to learn how to deploy a nodejs project to EC2. 
## Tech Stack

- **Client:** [Simple.CSS](https://simplecss.org/), [Quill](https://simplecss.org/), [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
- **Server:** [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/), [Express](https://expressjs.com/), [Sqlite](https://www.sqlite.org/index.html)

## Authors

- [@Henrik Zenkert](https://www.github.com/YesSeri)
